Hello everyone and welcome to the series of lectures on that plotted map plot lib or as some people
say that plot libe is a python to the plotting library which produces publication quality figures in
a variety of hardcopy formats.
That is to say you can export any figure and map plot lib to things like a PNB a JPEG file a PDA file
etc. and you can also display plots in environments across platforms will do the cheaper notebooks and
you'll see how nicely Jupiter interacts that plot live.
But if you're using something like pite charm it will also work fine just there.
It allows you to generate plots histograms power spectra bar charts error charts scatter plots cetera.
Just a few lines of code and really it is the most powerful and customizable visualization library for
Python.
There are many other libraries out there as you mentioned before but several of those libraries are
actually built on top of Matt plot lib Matt lib was initially based off of Matlab plotting capabilities.
So if you ever heard of the programming language Matlab or if you've actually programmed them plotted
with matlab that plotless will feel like a natural extension of what you already know.
As far as plotting now people tend to either love or hate that plot Lim.
Either way it really is so fundamental to visualization with Python.
You should know the basics of working with it.
I personally think one of the reasons you tend to read on line that people dislike map plot lib is the
fact that it has two API structures one is an object oriented API structure.
In other one is a function API oriented structure and people tend to get confused they don't realize
that there's two separate ways of work live and when they see one way and the other way kind of mixed
up they think it's an issue at the library when it's really just two different ways of working with
that plotted.
So we're going to be really clear in the two different ways of working of map Cutlip the functional
API and the object oriented API so that you end up loving map.
Hopefully so to get an idea of what is possible.
Matt plotless you can go to map plot lived or slash gallery the H T.M. and you'll see a bunch of images
galleries all create a map plot libs you can see what's possible and basically anything plot wise you
can think of is going to be possible.
So it tries to make easy things easy and the very difficult plots actually possible to create.
So we're going to do is explore the basics of that plot lib and its API and we're also going to understand
its core principles which will be very helpful later on when we actually do a visualization of pandas.
OK let's open up a notebook and get started.
Once you've installed that live the first thing you're going to be able to do is say import live high
plots as well.
And then if you're using the Jupiter note book what you're going to do is say percent sign map plot
lib space in line and that's going to allow you to actually see the plots you create inside the Jupiter
notebook.
So go ahead and run this if you are not using the Jupiter notebook's system.
What are you going to go ahead and do.
Is at the end of all your commands for plotting which will show later what you will type is t that show
close print the CS and later on we actually start plotting some examples.
Asha you would actually put that into your code.
All right let's go ahead and walk through the very simple example using two umpires when to go in and
say import NUMP pi as N.P. and say x is equal to N.P. Lind's space.
So it's going to be linearly spaced we'll go from zero to 5 and grab 11 points.
And then y is going to be equal to x.
So the power of two.
So if we take a look at x and y we have an array from 0 to 5 and then WHY are just all those elements
squared.
Now basic math plot live commands allow you to very quickly create a plot and we'll show you two ways
of creating map plotted plots.
One is a functional method and the other one is the object oriented method will show the functional
method first and then we'll shift over to the object oriented method.
Since that's usually the better way of creating a Cutlip plot.
Let's go and show you the functional method first.
The functional method is actually quite simple.
You say Piazzi got plots and then we can do shift tab here and you're going to pass in several arguments.
First one you're going to do for just a basic plot is passing your X and your y elements and then we
can go ahead and do shift enter and here this will actually show the plot.
We've went ahead and plotted X versus Y.
If you're not in the Jupiter note book which you are going to do at the end of this line before you
run your code say peel t show and then if I run that you can see we get the same plot.
You don't have to use puti show unless you're using something that's not the Jupiter note but the difference
in the Jupiter notebook is essentially like you're printing the plot.
Notice here if I don't have to show I can out.
So if I remove this or actually put it back in then I don't get the out.
So that's essentially the same thing just to do a quick analogy as typing a string versus saying print
the string
and that's the exact same thing what TLT that show's doing it's essentially printing out this plot instead
of just showing the plot.
All right.
For now on we won't actually concern ourselves with concert's consistently typing appeal to that show.
However if you're not using Jupiter No but you will have to keep typing that should just keep that in
mind.
All right so that's the most basic way to plot something about plot live which isn't so bad.
You can actually add that plot Matlab like arguments such as color and lifestyle and that will allow
you to continue to edit this plot.
We'll talk a lot more about this later on as far as line styles and color styles.
But if you're familiar with Matlab this probably already seems familiar to you.
Let's go ahead and remove that for now and just go for the basics.
If we want to add an X label y label or title to this plot we can do that with the following methods.
Can say Piazzi X label and then just pass in a string you want for the label will go in and say X label
and then for the y label you can say p t y label passing a string y label.
And then for the title you can say Piazzi that title and then we'll just go out and put in a title string
there.
Go ahead and run this.
And now we can see we have an X label a y label and a title.
And later on we're going to learn how we can specify the CPI or dots per inch in order to get some more
clarity here such as a finer font.
Let's go ahead and continue on with creating multi plots on the same canvas we're going to go ahead
and scroll down here.
Remove this cell and talk about putting multi plots on the same canvas nerd's to do that.
We're going to say peel t subplot and subplot takes in a couple of arguments as well.
Right now we can't see him so I'll go ahead and tell you the first one is going to be the number of
rows.
The number of columns and then the plot number you're referring to in this case we'll just go ahead
and say one that we'll go ahead and plot something on that cell.
We'll say X Y and we'll go ahead and specify that it's the color red string are.
As a third arguments.
Again don't worry too much about fully understanding this because once we get to the object oriented
method a lot of this is going to make way more sense.
But I just want to show you what's possible for now.
Let's go ahead and say another appeal to that subplot.
We specify one row by two columns and the third argument is the plot number.
Now we're going to edit the second plot and we'll say peel t that plot.
Well go ahead and do Y versus x and specified B for blue as a string here.
Let's go ahead and run this and see what we get.
OK so now we have two subplots here that's creating multiple plots on the same canvas.
Now we're going to do is after we've seen the very basics of creating a plot we're going to break this
all down for a more formal introduction to that libs object oriented API method and this means we're
going to instantiate figure objects and then call methods or attributes from that object.
And that's going to be a much better way of actually using that plot live.
So the basics for now are just using PLDT that plot and then putting in your data or PBT that subplot
specifying the number of rows and columns and then the figure we are working on and then using to plot.
Let's go in and switch gears to the object oriented method.
And this is going to be much better.
The main idea in using the more formal object oriented method is to create figure objects and then just
call methods off of this.
Let me go in and show you what I mean by that.
I'm going to go ahead and say fig is equal to peel t figure and I'm going to go in and close the princes
there.
Now if I just run that cell.
Notice I have a figure object has been created this figure object you can think of it as just kind of
this imaginary blank canvas.
And we can add a set of access to this canvas.
So in the same cell I'm going to say XS is equal to Fig dot add underscore axes and I'm going to add
a set of axes and the way you can add a set of axes is by passing in a list and the list takes in for
arguments a left bottom width and height arguments that range from zero to 1.
Basically the percent of that blank canvas you want to go ahead and take.
Let me go in and show an example.
And again I'm kind of going to be showing you a lot of stuff that won't make sense at first but everything
will make sense at the end as you see repeated examples and you break it down further.
So I'm just typing in some numbers here.
This is going to be left of the axes.
It's going to be the bottom of the axes.
And this is going to be the width and the height of the axes 0.8.
Let me go ahead and run this on the cell and now notice what I get here.
Now I have a blank set of axes.
So I said P-T that figure created a figure object and then off that figure object I called the method
add a set of axes and passed in a list of where I actually want the axes to be placed next what I'm
going to do is actually plot on that set of axes.
And this is going to feel familiar to what we just did earlier.
You're going to say axes stop plots and let's go ahead and plot x and y on that set of axes and then
shift and turn.
And now you can see we've basically come up with the same plot we did earlier except using an object
oriented method.
So if I scroll back up here this was the plot we did earlier we just said Appeal teed up plot but now
using this sort of object oriented method we're going to have a lot more control over this.
It's a little more involved as far as the steps we need to take.
But it's definitely worth it.
So we've created a figure we call the figure method axes on this pass then a list of axes and then plotted
on that sort of axes if we want to continue by putting x labels y labels and titles.
You can go ahead and do that on that set of axes.
You can say set underscore X label.
It's a little different from the appeal to you just X label.
We're looking at this axes object you're going to say sets underscore.
And now we can go ahead and pasand the string x label and you're going to do the same thing for y labels.
Looks y label.
And let's go ahead and the same thing for a title set underscore title.
Now if we run this we should see our new labels X label y label and set title.
Let's go ahead and continue this idea of object oriented programming with that limb by putting in two
sets of figures on one canvas.
And this will start to make sense as far as what this list is referencing.
I'm going to go ahead and scroll down to a new cell and zoom in a little bit just so you can get a very
clear picture of what we're actually doing here.
I'm going to say fig is equal to peel that figure.
So I'm creating that figure object.
So there's my figure object.
I'm going to say axes one is equal to Fig.
Axes.
I don't want to go ahead and set my own axes it will be zero point one zero point one and then zero
point eight point eight.
And again this is the left the bottom and then the width and height of that sort of axes.
And they're going to add another set of axes.
Call them axes to going to say Fig.
Add underscore axes and then when I'm going to go ahead and do is basically put inserts axes I'm going
to say the bottom of the set of axes starts 20 percent from the left 50 percent from the bottom.
So excuse me here I'm talking about basically this.
This bottom corner of the axes the left in the bottom.
So 20 percent in from the left 50 percent up from the bottom.
And then we will say it takes up 40 percent of the canvas size and width and 30 percent of the canvas
size and height.
So all these values here must be between 0 and 1.
Let's go ahead and run this and know what we get out.
We get this basically insert set of axes and hopefully now you can begin to see what these values actually
correspond to what I want you to do now is go ahead and pause the video and play around with these numbers.
Make sure they're all either between 0 and 1 and see how they correlate with the set of axes.
Go ahead.
Just play around with axes 2 and move it around.
For instance try to get the set of axes two over here at the bottom corner.
Good and positive.
See if you can move this insur over to the bottom corner.
All right I'll see if I can do that.
Now so if I want this at the bottom corner I probably want to say that it goes left bottom width and
height.
So I will try shifting it down by making this basically just 0 so start.
Well it's going to say 0.1 here start at 0.1 5.
So a little off the bottom of this insert here of Axis 1 will go ahead and run this.
And there I was able to move it more towards the bottom remember this second one is the bottom.
And now we want to move more towards the right which means from the left a 1 or 2 percent.
Wise move this bottom corner more over from the left.
Let's go to set this as 8 and now looks like shifted it a little too much so let's go in and shift that
back to maybe 5 and there we can see we have it now in the bottom.
All right go ahead and play around of that.
If these figures are these numbers are still a little unclear.
Remember they're basically just denoting the left bottom and the width and height from range 0 to 1
relation to the blank canvas.
We're going to go ahead and reset these to what we have in that originally 0.2 and 0.5.
So we have our little insert there.
And then what I'm going to do is go ahead and plot on these axes.
So I'm going to say axes 1 plots and I will say X come a Y and then I will say xes to that plot will
go and say why come x Let's go out and run this in here I can see now I have my little insur and my
outer plot and then I can keep adding stuff on each set of axes if I want my inserts have a title for
instance axes 2 I can say axes two set title and we'll go and say insert it.
It's going to make it very clear we'll say smaller plots and then on axes 1.
Let's go ahead and set a title
and we will set this title as larger plots going and run that so noticed what happened here actually
got an error because I didn't actually see smaller plot because I forgot to put a 2.
Here let's run this one more time.
OK now we are getting what we're supposed to get.
We have larger plot and smaller plot.
And basically that's the idea behind object oriented programming that plotted you create a figure.
And that's essentially just an empty canvas.
So let me go in and show that one more time just by putting this in a cell by itself.
We create this empty figure there's nothing to show.
And then you add a set of axes to it.
By saying axes whatever one or two etc. equals fig thought at underscore axes and you pass and this
list that goes from left bottom and then the width and the height in relation to this empty canvas.
So if we run this then we have our anti-acid of axes and then you can plot off those axes.
You can say axes one plot and then x comma Y.
All right.
This is the sort of methodology we're going to be working with from that public as far as the very basic
way of working that plotless which is the functional method.
You can just say appeal to that plot or appeal that subplot.
We're going to learn how to create subplots using this object oriented method which is going to be a
lot more efficient and grant us a lot more control.
OK.
Go ahead and review this section of the map Cutlip concepts lecture notebook.
There's a lot more notes and a lot more comments in the note book in case any of this confused you but
hopefully by now you have a full understanding of basically this.
These lines of code right here if you understand what's going on in the cell then you're pretty much
good to go.
We just create a figure we add and axes to that figure you find the location of that set of axes with
this list and then you can plot on that sort of axes you can set the titles at the X label y label etc..
All right.
Thanks everyone and I will see you at the next lecture or we're going to continue this discussion off
of the same Jupiter notebook.
Thanks and I'll see the next lecture.